a lot of people have different opinions
about demand generation then it's demand
creation then we call it a different
names but what's most important is we
start with closing the existing demand
in market so those are the people who
actually have a specific problem that we
have a solution for we start from them
and then we move on to maybe some others
who are not aware or are not ready yet
bu or Don't Know About Us
[Music]
what is demand generation marketing and
what's a solid strategy to drive
Pipeline and revenue from your demand
gen welcome back to fresh episode of
Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning n Mana
welcome to the show nman is the founder
over funky marketing we're going to be
chatting through all things demand
generation so you can nail down your
demand generation strategy for your B2B
Tech SAS or service company and your
Mania is going to share some slightly
different slightly lesser known slightly
unusual plays that you might not have
considered to build demand for your
business turn that into leads signups
sales tools or Pipeline and we talking
about things like how important demand
generation is today what strategies are
actually working that you can t ially
put into play as a Founder as a marketer
for your business breaking them down as
we always do with a bit of step by step
and having a bit of a back and forth so
first and foremost the
Mana how important is demand generation
compared to other goto Market strategies
right now for B2B and and SAS
companies well I'd say it's it's
essential right it's one part of the
coin so we start with uh closing the
demand so I call demand generation
actually closing the demand just to kind
of let it out uh and then you know if
it's not enough then we start creating
demand creating the awareness the brand
and all other side of it now we can do
it in a lot of different ways and
especially today a lot of people have
different opinions about demand
generation then it's demand creation
then we call it different names but
what's most important is we start with
closing the existing in the market so
those are the people who actually have a
specific problem that we have a solution
for we start from them and then we move
on to maybe some others who are not
aware or are not ready yet to buy or
don't know about us okay so talk talk us
through that then for someone that's
because I know so many people have a a
definition of of what demand generation
means and it sounds like to you closing
the demand is is what it really means
but talk us through what that actually
means in a a tangible tangible way for
folks that might not have heard the the
saying before yeah let's let's look at
it uh you know everybody knows that fact
that B2B LinkedIn Institute said uh I
think a year and a half or two years ago
that like 95% of the B2B customers are
not in the market to buy right now uh I
would say it's uh it's a little bit more
less than 2% of them from you know from
actually working with companies and from
the practice I know the fact uh are at
the market to buy now meaning you know
talking about B2B products who have a
long sale cycles and high ACV um High
average annual contracts so uh it's
expensive things to buy uh it takes
longer because uh you talks about uh you
know on my episode we talk about jobs to
be done right uh you are actually not
selling to a person you are selling to
to a group of people uh that all have
their jobs uh they need to do and you
actually know need to know the problem
and through your content through your
product your service whatever is you're
selling you need to help them actually
solve their problems right sometimes
it's CFO needs to make a decision about
investment about the money it's the CEO
Who oversee it and said we finally need
to solve that specific problem or it's
the CTO or CMO however do we call it and
there are also people who are working
with you right who will actually use the
product or work with you as a vendor
however it is that need to recognize you
so so you need to impact that decision
making from uh from a lot of uh
different points and um when the time
comes for the company for example let's
uh let's talk like you're selling to
the CTO so like the CTO wakes up one day
and say finally we need to solve that
specific problem right and uh it goes
you know I've been looking for this to
solve this but we didn't have money we
didn't have
resources now we have a little bit of
money and that problem is really itching
us so he said for example I don't know
John John can you go and find me three
best products over there uh that will
help us solve that specific problem so
John goes uh Google types in writes in
uh you know finds a couple of lists uh
and so these are the three companies so
it brings it down to the to the city o
and uh CTO says okay we're going to
choose one in a couple of months if that
didn't work
out he said okay so why did we choose
this company they are made for working
with bigger or smaller companies or
different kind of companies or different
Niche inside the industry so who's the
one who recommended it John John what
happened man why did you uh recommend us
that company he said you tell me to get
you the three best you know that's what
I did so go out to Google check it out
and you for yourself so John was
protecting his ass to talk about frankly
and that happens a lot there's a lot of
biases inside each position everybody
protects their jobs those kind of things
but what can we do to actually avoid all
these things uh to be on top of Mind of
the CTO before uh he makes a decision to
go which means we need to create a real
estate uh in his heart and mind you know
how we uh poetically say that which
means that we need to create awareness
create a brand and you know create a
relationship with that person or with
the people from the team however it is
and we'll talk about that later but
let's say we
didn't influence the decision making
before it happened so they have a list
of couple of companies maybe they
gathered it uh they found it on Google
uh they got an advice from uh I don't
know from friend or fellow CEO or
however it is so they have like three to
five companies when they have that what
they do they usually go and do the
research meaning they first go to Google
right they Google them and they see okay
I see those are kind of those companies
what are they writing about what's their
positioning messaging everything that's
on a website through SEO they are
communicating for which kind of
companies they are do they have enough
experience experience do they have the
features that we need you know all those
specific things then they say okay let's
see and uh if they're uh you know if
they have perfect now we go to for
example LinkedIn or whatever it is the
platform to check out if they have
enough experience for us right and only
then they reach out to you so you find
out then only after this process is done
so it doesn't have to be just Google I'm
saying Google but it can be like um you
know uh Microsoft azour or it can be
Amazon um you know
Marketplace reviewes yeah yeah you have
no idea that this thing is happening in
the background right uh unless you talk
to the customers you know that's how you
find out how they are actually buying
and how's the process going so this is
the you know where you need to have and
be present with uh what we talk about
about it's the middle of the funnel
bottom of the funnel content and you
need to communicate why you are the
right choice for those companies now and
not only that but why do are you one of
the three
choices uh that they need to spend money
on that year even on a bigger scale
right because in B2B I we already said
it's expensive products something
sometimes it happens that you invest in
those products once in a five years you
know now there I don't know uh for
example some products for the factories
you open a factory once in a five years
then you uh sell to them and in five
years they come back to you to buy again
so it
means during those five years you need
to be present create relationship be
there so in five years maybe it's a
different person but they need to choose
you again right so that's from that
perspective but if you look at uh go
back and you know maybe you want to
avoid all of this what you need to do
then you need to uh go and create demand
meaning you don't influence creating the
demand the company need to you know to
know that okay we have this problem we
need to solve it when it's the right
time you need to just be there in the
right time and uh you don't do that by
posting content now or communicating now
or doing the ads
now and you know I'm going to influence
the decision making it's going to happen
and I'm going to close 50 million deal
deal in a week it doesn't happen so what
you're are doing now you will see the
results in a couple of months and uh to
be
able to do that you need to uh know how
decisions are being made okay we said
one part of it another part of it is how
do you get on the list right so you need
when I want to buy something B to be our
first go to the small communities that
we have now right right so I go and I
ask I have 10 people that I know and
trust over there then um I went to I go
to Social and maybe I will have a post
uh and get the feedback or I will have a
pick up the phone and call for example
you Sam and say hey man you are working
with uh you know with you also have a
podcast maybe you can recommend me the
best tool to I don't know um chop up the
smaller clips for example or something
like that but I will ask somebody who
who works who is my peers maybe more
experienced than I to give me a
recommendation marketing's job is to be
there and so their name name appears
when those conversations happen meaning
it has a job to facilitate the sales
process and communicate our unique
advantage and if that things happen
customers will come to us inbound on
their own come to the website and say I
want to buy when they say I want to buy
this is the moment when they are ready
and this is the moment we involve the
sales right until that moment we don't
want to involve sales because they don't
want to talk to sales right they want to
do their research they want to find out
information maybe listen to the podcast
read articles communicate with us on
social you know see how other companies
are thinking about us all these things
but then sales has an easy job to just
convert convert the Demand right that is
already out there and by doing that they
are not wasting time on talking to 200
300 leads which is extremely expensive
and when you have that many leads and
when leads are your target right you go
and add more more more more more so um
then you need to have more salese not
everybody are experienced not everybody
are good in in what they do but if you
do it like I describe sales can actually
go and do the outbound do the Outreach
talk to the people in different
different way and you are already
creating the awareness the brand so it's
much easier for them to communicate and
in that way there's an alignment inside
the company right because the two things
are talking about sales is not saying
marketing is giving us the shitty leads
again uh but instead you are actually
having the symbiosis of everything and
what is um this is the final thing that
I'm going to say what is the unique uh
advantage the company can have
especially B2B SS these days is the
clear and simple uh onboarding process
and how people find you convert get the
product try it and actually buy so uh in
that way by doing that you are actually
uh differentiating from the others and
making it more easy for the others to
buy from
you you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or offers on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking bb.com to check our
results pricing or to book a call with
me lot to unpack but I I appreciate
there's there's a lot we've covered
there in the Mania so great great start
we talked
about demand capture we've talked about
creating demands we're we're essentially
saying basically that doesn't really
matter the audience that you serve no
more than two three maybe a little bit
more percent are going to be at one time
in market for your offer so actively
searching for your Solution on Google
going to paid review sites or
going to whatever whether it's a search
engine or elsewhere that they'd go to
when they're ready to I don't know sign
up book a demo speak to a
salesperson so as well as that you
should be considering creating demand so
building mind
share I've think I've heard this saying
from Pep Lear or maybe someone else
creating mental
availability common thing these days to
say yeah yeah yeah within within your
prospect's mind so I suppose when they
associate certain problems that you
might solve they they think of your
offer or when they need a certain
service or solution they think your
offer comes to mind so there's a lot to
break down and I love the point because
I I speak to to this a lot as well that
the fact that when you are providing a
higher value solution service or piece
of software it's just it's not one
person buying it it's there's so many so
many several people involved in that
committee and it's not like a a click of
the things decision there's a lot of
thought that goes into it a lot of
valuation and if you can get ahead of
that curve it's going to help you so
much by being familiar already being
trusted and already being at the top of
the list so almost getting a bit of a
cheat code to to being Top Choice so
with that
said where we are now should BB should
SAS companies should they still start in
your opinion we properly disagree on
this would should companies start with
capturing that demand so the folks that
are already searching for the solution
but might not have a brand Top Choice or
should they start with trying to kind of
create awareness create affinity and
build building
demand yes so there are two things so um
and two answers right the first one is
if you are creating a totally new
product that you know doesn't exist
anymore it's not something that you are
solving the same problem but you are you
found a problem that you know other
people aren't solving so in that case
there's no demand to close right so you
need to First create start creating the
conversations around that topic and you
know go and do something differently I I
usually like to use the example of drift
back in the days when they
um basically start organizing like
offline events
dinners for product people for executive
and listening what they were saying and
they were saying a lot of stuff I have a
problem with this with this with this
and they found out okay so they don't
like forms on the website right so how
do we call it nicely so we can actually
create conversation around we call it
conversational marketing right so what
can we do to actually Empower that and
make people actually go and search for
it we write a book so and also we create
a podcast when we talk about all these
things we use social media like Twitter
at the time we Empower our team to talk
about it on LinkedIn and then you have
different voices evangelism basically
conversational marketing right and
doesn't create only the thing for you it
also uh empowers other in the space
right it's not something that you alone
can do but you need to involve other
companies as well so from that
perspective yeah because if you do the
customer research uh and you ask people
you know to give you feedback on what
you want to sell if they don't know that
something exist they cannot actually
give you the information right and if
you don't solve the problem they if they
you leave them with the existing
solutions that didn't solve the problem
well they will be pissed off at you
right so you will have to deal with that
as well but on the other hand um what I
suggest to everybody because like if you
look at the biggest companies out there
they started from the existing problem
right and it's much easier to go into uh
the audience that already has the
existing problem maybe you just have the
better solution right or you go into the
smaller Niche when you have a simplier
uh solution for them and start from that
place so that's where I would always go
instead of you know chasing
um you know how do we call it unicorns
and coming up with the category creation
and those kind of things I will start
from the existing problems that I can
solve and that resonates with how do I
call it like when I look at the
potential Market I like to say you
know as small as uh the market that we
can uh own 30% of in like six
months that's that's how small I want to
get if I can right meaning you talk to
200 people
right you don't need to talk to that
many people those are like 200 people
that you want to talk to uh show your
content to show your offer to uh create
relationships with whatever it is uh so
so they know that you are the solution
right and and you want to have at least
how do we call it uh Marquee customer
you know you scrape your way into that
so there are no um specific ways you can
do it you try different things to get
that Customer because that one customer
that everybody on the market knows will
open the doors for you for the others to
come meaning they choosing between
solving a specific problem that bothers
them for a long time or trusting you you
know you are solving the problem and
then you are working with that company
that they know and trust so it
eliminates that and that's where you
start with so when you build uh and you
actually you know be on top of the Mark
only 30% of the niche meanings that you
own the niche right so when you go there
uh basically you start with that and you
build from there so you not go if I need
to have like 40,000 people reaching with
my ads with my content but with
200 yeah and I suppose there's a few
considerations where I see some nice
feedback for those tuning in live from
Amy and KD enjoying the conversation so
I appreciate everyone tuning in if you
are on the live but yeah so we're we're
talking about a few things so you
mentioned if you're a new category if
your solution if you're offering is
perhaps something that your target
prospects don't actually know exists so
they're not searching for it they're not
comparing it they're not looking for it
then you have to kind of talk to your
customers understand like like the drift
example you gave understand what is the
their problem understanding this
solution is actually worth building out
and then realizing how you can build
awareness around it bring it to Market
strike up conversations and start
driving Revenue that way and then
eventually once demand is created you
might be able to use mechanisms like SEO
Page search paid search review sites and
all all the rest of it whereas probably
the smarter way is to look for a maybe
untapped Niche within your category
within your solution for maybe a more
mature Market Ika solution that people
already knows exists and then they might
be searching Google for it they might be
going to review sites they might be
going to other ways to to find it that's
probably makes more sense so let's do we
do we agree or disagree I I agree I mean
naturally I sell SEO right I provide SEO
that's my main offer so I'm going to
tell people that demand captures the way
but I'm I think we're of a similar
mindset I say the same I say look seo's
a waste of your time if you're a new
category like if you're selling
something that people aren't searching
for like you're way better off realizing
where talking to your Target customers
talking to Target process ects where do
they spend their time where where are
their trustworthy sources are are they
listening to a specific podcast great
pay for ad space there or get
interviewed get your founder interviewed
there are they tuning into a c are they
reading a certain newsletter get ad
space there or get a feature there are
they going to a specific event get your
ass there do not waste your money or
time on SEO please find out where your
target prospects are hanging out now and
then consider SEO maybe more of an
education piece over time and then once
there's more demand around your offer
yes go Full Steam on it Full Steam on
paid search but right now if folks are
already in different places get your
resource there and then go for it and
maybe build out an outbound strategy as
well where you can kind of lay out the
problems you fix and start building ging
and and it's actually it takes time to
create the brand the awareness do you
can cheat on it kind of like we did with
funy marketing creating like top funy
marketing top voices list and those kind
of things with the people who has the
have the authorities so they
you know we look like we have a brand
you know we're nearly close to having a
brand even now like four and a half
years later right but it looked like
that and people called us I come to the
meeting they say oh I told you like the
the marketer to the
CMO like they are the big boys in the
community you know like uh people look
at at as as the bigger one and that's
usually what happens uh you know on
social when people are not already
indicated uh but there is one thing that
I want to to share and I think it's it's
important to know because see people do
that all the time they try to uh close
the
demand before uh you know they they know
how to how they are different right
right and usually I will give a specific
example we look at LinkedIn so they try
to use LinkedIn ads right usually when
companies go to LinkedIn ads they say
okay we're going to do Le gen ads right
have a eBook whatever ever it is uh
convert I don't know 10 15 people
download it then we going to pitch them
right but the thing is if they don't
know how they are different and I'm
talking different in many you know it
can be many different aspects but I'll
use an example they don't look different
they they look up to the bigger
companies so they have like the website
in the same color as the bigger player
right the bigger players usually have
like blue color on the website for
example because they're big it says
safety trust education whatever it is
and if you the ads in in the same color
and you have the website in the same
color and you don't have a brand but you
are try trying to close the
demand what you are actually using you
will evangelize more people to know
about your custo your competitors then
you will close the Demand right A lot of
people forget about that specific things
cuz they see blue and you talk about the
same topics right uh and you talk about
the same problem so they will go to
Google look for it and find a bigger
company and you know so that happens a
lot and uh I realized I didn't talk
about that as much and I don't see
anybody else talking about it and it's
important big fan of differentation and
I think a lot of um B2B a lot of SAS
companies are scared stiff to stand out
I think you and I are in a fortunate
space in the that we we both run small
businesses we're both Founders so we can
pretty much we don't have an exact team
telling us what we can and can't do we
can do what we want like for for example
my website headline is B2B SEO for for
Revenue not vanity and we did that for a
reason because customers were telling me
their agencies are promising the world
promising all this traffic but it's not
converting into demos and I said let's
do the opposite and let's relay that in
our messaging and I'm sure you you're
much the same with your tactics like we
can pretty much try and test what we
want based on what the market what
prospects what customers tell us we can
be fast and iterate we can stand against
we can stand against the Giants that we
maybe don't agree with and we can kind
of post our hot takes it's gets a bit
harder when you go into larger
Enterprises a lot more red tape but like
you say you've got to stand out if
you're a small fish in a big pond you've
got to pick a niche you've got to pick
industries that are maybe
underserved and you've got to you've got
to stand for something if you want to
get that initial mind share get that
mental availability get that REM get
remembered by your prospects um yeah
because if you're trying to get people
to you know to go and look for you
you're trying to educate them make sure
that you educate them in a way that they
go and look for you not for the problem
or something like that because that's
not where you will win that's where your
competitors are winning let's start with
that then let for for folks that are
tuning in listening watching and
thinking I want Target clients to start
looking for me and got of build some
Affinity around my brand so when they
think of this offer or this problem they
look for us directly like what are the
what tactically what are some of the
first steps if folks want to build a bit
of a demand gen engine and start being
the first choice in their prospect's
mind what are some of the the first
things they should consider yeah let's
uh let's go quickly step by step so
before you do anything you need to know
how you position yourself how you
communicate that positioning
differentiation well how do you get
those things to know uh you talk to your
customers right existing one and the
ones that you lost and you ask them how
do you uh how would you call our product
or our service how would you look for it
uh where do you go to get educated is it
the same place where you will go when
you want to buy uh if you have to buy
again our product or the service because
you are talking to existing customers uh
would you do the same as you did before
and you of course asked them what did
they do the the goal or also like who
are you following on social LinkedIn
which newsletters are you reading uh who
are you following on YouTube which
podcast are interest or interest of you
so you want to create a clear picture to
know exactly how customers are coming to
buy from you right we said one thing
before and this marketing has a goal to
facilitate the buying process so you
need to know exactly the steps they are
doing to get there and you need to give
them exactly enough in each step so they
go to the next step not too much you
know we mentioned that they don't want
to talk to sales they want to do
different stuff for example like you
give them an article to read and inside
that article you give them a resource
meaning a checklist like um for example
the article is about um
how to create uh the best landing page
right for example and the resource might
be five things to do now to create the
best landing page so you know that
they're ready for the next step right
and you go and then you serve them the
next step if they are not ready not
clicking on that they are not ready so
um important thing is to follow in which
stage they are how they are going but
the thing is it's always getting messy
we told about that the process is not
linear they might listen to this podcast
Now read this article they might
download the resources as well and then
say I just wanted to get it and do it on
my own uh and you know then they reach
out after a couple of months uh so the
thing
is uh that when you know all these
things so you know the platform which
they are using you know whom they are
following you know how the buying
process goes so you can actually create
a strategy around it uh what I say
previously you need to have a a
strategic narrative a story of your
company that you actually know who you
are and who you targeting then you go to
the strategy and start creating content
strategy and all these things so
important thing is okay these for
example we choose LinkedIn as a platform
let's say that's place where we go when
we go to LinkedIn we need to know who
are the people that uh our audience
trust and follow so we try to see how we
can work with those people to give you
an example uh I recently
um had a I don't know it was a
conversation creating something whatever
it is with vix for example okay and you
know they are B Toc everybody knows them
as bit Toc tool right but in the
background they be creating B2B cont uh
product for the Enterprise companies and
it's already existing they're already
using but nobody knows that they are B2B
content Enterprise level so when they
say okay who is our target audience our
target audience is our marketers right
those that lead marketing teams inside
the you know corporations so what we're
going to do we're going to go we ask you
know uh marketers who are they following
what's happening did our own research so
they reach out and they say okay we want
to do influencer marketing we want to
involve different marketers to talk
about us about use our tool talk about
our tool and go to do different things
so we want to slowly create create the
awareness through that right uh and be
on top of mind that's all that they can
do then I told them okay what if we can
do the next thing as well so first we
create I don't know it can be a top list
top 10
um marketers by weeks how however do we
call it so and we have some Target
accounts and then we have some influ a
mix of people so we create slowly
relationships with them and we involve
them it becomes an account-based
marketing strategy right from the
awareness we take them to the middle of
the funnel when we already talk about
them using the tool we involve for
example like some leaders head of the
product CMO so they can get familiar
with the people from the company then
after that phase so now we create the
awareness we have relationship with
those people what can we do well maybe
we can do two webinars that will explain
how the product actually works so we can
go Tire one and tire two Tire one are
ideal clients Tire two are maybe the
people we mentioned that there are you
know a group of people inside the
company
um buying committee how we call them
that can influence the decision making
from uh you know from different
perspective so we have Tire one tire two
we explain those things so we then watch
who's reacting to those to those videos
not send pitching right away the people
who were on webinars but looking if they
are watching the video if they are
opening the emails if they are then we
call them right away right so that can
be like one way to do it other way can
can be I don't know
um go through the founders of the
company through the leadership then we
have them uh active on LinkedIn uh they
share leadership cont content then we
have a company page where we share how
we actually solve the specific problem
um and then people who are for example
not leadership but they are marketers
sales product people person
personalize uh those posts so we solve
the problem that way here's from my
perspective how does it look like so
inside their own uh
expertise they share how they do it and
it creates we we started calling them
surround sound right we have the company
page which is like umbrella and then we
have people from the company who
actually holds the umbrella so you don't
get soaking wet on the rain and you know
and those people actually employees of
the company actually create the surround
sound of the company uh and it matters a
lot it can get very easy in millions so
imagine having different conversations
you come to LinkedIn you see uh you know
that man from the company tomorrow you
see another one uh day after you get
notification that the third one is also
um on a I don't know live streaming on
an event the fourth day you see the head
of brand talking about hiring somebody
from LinkedIn you know and you feel like
they're everywhere you don't actually
have a choice at one moment you feel
like you don't have a choice I'm using
that one example is the same Rush that
I'm talking about so like at one moment
you feel like you don't have a choice
they're going big on brand at the moment
aren't they in LinkedIn big time but W
Wix is a good example as well Wix um Wix
used to have a really bad rep as that
their websites weren't great for SEO
exactly you know they actually got in
touch with a bunch of SEO influencers
started getting them to ship out a load
of content in Partnership on channels
like LinkedIn YouTube now I think they
sponsor a bunch of SEO specific podcasts
and they basically slowly gradually
chipped away at having that terrible
reputation now thinking oh Wix is
actually let me tell you what else they
are doing while doing that they are now
having the you know planning the product
launch of that thing but also they
started organizing events in London in
the US in
Australia so offline executive dinners
remember it said how drift did it so
they connect offline with the online
with influencer marketing with Partners
uh and of course they have the b2c
aspect of it which is on on Instagram
mainly Tik Tok whatever it is and now
when you see that it creates like lava
effect they are everywhere including
also the podcast and those kind of
things and and that's exactly what you
want to to create so you know when
somebody feels okay I need a
website they go and they look for weeks
they don't look for anybody else or they
go and look for Sam rush they don't look
for anybody else yeah you know and
usually how we track that now that's I
think the the essential part how do we
track the content
creation we have these two two lines
that we create so we talk about closing
demand and creating Demand right closing
demand it goes through CRM it goes
through Google analytics then you can
actually see okay it's coming from
LinkedIn it's coming from slack it's
coming from YouTube we can see those
things uh and it's very indicated
because like like they're looking at the
last touch attribution mostly multitouch
attribution is flown in all kind of ways
but it gives us the um quantitative way
of measuring things so that many people
came from this platform they did this
but if we had that's actually it's
mindblowing how simple it is right we
add a selfreported attribution for on
the
website and we said that those I usually
like to use two fields and we say that
they are a must for somebody to fill in
we don't have um predicting answers so
it's they need to have a blank piece of
uh you know space and they
write when we ask them I usually ask
them how did you hear about us and why
do you want to work with us so
um first one usually says you know they
will give us for example like this
podcast they heard it on podcast they
heard it on LinkedIn they heard it
somebody else or they can say I heard it
uh I saw the the post inside our
community right somebody saw this video
and posted it in a company slack and
they watched it and maybe in two months
or three months whever uh you know the
demand got to that far and the problem
got really big they reached out so they
knew who they going to reach out it just
took time uh on the other hand why do
you want to work with
that's kind of an interesting thing and
on the first one and second one I
usually get like NE jumps on out of p on
LinkedIn I got NE LinkedIn so they use
the same words that I'm using or they
say um I'm following what you guys are
doing on LinkedIn and in a B2B space I'm
in industrial space nobody does what you
guys are doing everything is boring it's
dull and I want to try something else
and that's enough for me to have a
conversation with you or they say I
don't know like why do you reach out to
us they say like Pepa recommended you
for example or refine Labs referred you
but then when I say why do you want to
work with us they say Well when plier
recommends you I listen you know so you
get you see which authorities are also
referring to you because you know people
who will react on your post those are
usually your peers and they will
recommend they won't buy from you but
those who will buy from you are those
who get um who you get referred to or
those people who are never reacting to
anything they're just watching observing
and when the time comes they say he n
I've been following you for three years
you know and it's the time that it
happens and also so uh let's say what
happen if the deal doesn't go
through you think that that deal is lost
so you focus on something else you stop
posting in on social you stop doing the
things that you're doing and
um nothing will happen you know but
because people will keep coming through
Google which are not ideal looking for
the lower price looking for different
things but if you keep doing what you're
doing you are also talking to the
customers who are potentially lost but
can be gained again to come back to you
maybe you don't know what happened I
just had a situation when a guy reached
out to me he I sent him a form in
February he came now and he said oh a
lot of things happen I moved to Valencia
a lot of things happen and he reached
out I need a fractional
CMO right so so those kind of things
happen somebody reached out to me after
four years uh and also to those deals
that fell through what you can do you
can increase the lifetime value of those
deals through the content meaning if if
you talk about hey uh specific things I
work with that company I sold them this
product this is how they used it or how
we help them solve specific problem
through our
services you know people are following
you especially the leaders if you are
active so they you know one leader of
the compan is following another always
happening especially if you using their
product and then they will say hey is
there maybe something that we can work
on additionally can you help us with
that as well can
your product if we buy like the premium
package can it also solve that problem
for us that is solve for this company
you know because usually as we talk
about on uh on you know your episode on
my podcast is um companies like to look
up to the similar companies from the
industry you know when they see okay you
help that company aha I know that you
know I know that company I know the
leader and I know that then you can help
us as
yeah yeah yeah some good points one one
thing that I want to dive into Quick is
you given some great examples so you
mentioned kind of the strategy that
Wicks have been working on for any
marketers that are perhaps tuning in or
solo Founders that are thinking that all
sounds great and I understand but these
are Mammoth soft huge software companies
which of this can I Implement myself as
perhaps a smaller business or marketing
team of one two or kind of a small
little
team let me let me tell you uh vxs came
to me in Bound so and I'm one person
company at the
moment so you can do it you just need to
know who you are targeting and I'm the
one somebody who has been working with
startups before now I'm moving up Market
midsize companies and uh maybe
Enterprise level companies who are
coming like weeks from b2c moving to B2B
and need help with understanding B2B and
the context and how it works and you
know those kind of things so important
thing is that uh you know exactly who
you are talking to and not getting out
of it so uh usually what I say let's say
you focus on LinkedIn so that's the the
simplest as it can be so focus on
creating content for LinkedIn as simple
as possible you know what you're are
doing go ahead and write over there
first write about what you are selling a
product or a service write everything
about it uh which features it has uh how
does it work everything then the second
Tire should be usually uh things that
you talk about uh you
know how do we said has anybody ever
reach has you have you helped somebody
reach the promised land you know who are
those people can you share me the
examples so you go with testimonials
with case studies success stories to
show how other companies like those that
you are targeting
um you know solve their problems MH then
you go uh what you what you want to talk
about more is your experience right as
or experience of your team if you're uh
creating a product right so you want to
know that the right people are working
on that so you need to know their
experience stories however it goes then
you want to go further and maybe you
want to add something that's personal
for example I don't know we talked about
soer
at the beginning of the episode then I
can say I like to read Comics I like to
read Epic Fantasy Books then I play
basketball you know I look I go on
Twitter and I talk about NBA those kind
of things so you want to have that small
note that people can um uh connect you
with so then it's more than business
it's more than business and you can go
more in depth about the business topics
because you understand each other on on
a deeper level you know it can be I
don't know the example comes to mind um
a guy that is working with me on a lot
of stuff uh doing LinkedIn education
with me Dan he has a podcast with
his wife rare and share about uh the
rare diseases because they had their son
had a disease now he doesn't have but
they like to uh evangelist to do
evangelism for death topic and you know
and he talk about Parenthood and kids
and those kind of things and it's like
not even the 20% of the content he talks
about right 80% is still the services he
offers the product whatever it is so
that's how you go if you want to make it
more simple than that that might be S
too complicated for somebody past
present in the future past is what
happened until now you have stories
books that you read uh last n work
experiences campaigns that you run
whatever it is uh you
have present time meaning what you do
dayto day you know how outcomes from the
meetings conclusions thing that you uh
consume right now and then you have the
future it is your point of view so
meaning you get up in the air and you
look at everything that's happening from
with your experience with your knowledge
and with what we already mentioned with
positioning messaging you know who
you're are targeting so you see some
things others don't see if not why are
you there at all so uh let's assume that
you know that so when you are above
everybody else you can connect the dots
and see the pets that others don't see
and it should make you
angry right frustrated others don't see
it and that should gives you the
strength because like those point of
view or I call it future post we will uh
will be sometimes rents sometimes you
will help others connect the do and
educate them sometimes uh you will share
examples whatever it is but you need to
figure out the way uh and you figure it
out by talking to the customers how they
want to consume those things and what is
the best way that you explain it to them
now that is something that is called uh
content platform fit and it takes for 12
months to two years to do it so I always
suggest go all in share different types
of content in a different way but talk
about the same things and you will get
as fast as possible to that then you
optimize then you automate and then you
move on to the next target audience or
you uh to the next
feature some great stuff some great
stuff shared and I think some of the
cracks of this
is like I talk about a lot I think you
have a similar mindset like really
understanding if you want to do a lot of
this if you want to create awareness
with the target prospects that you
actually want to be selling to you've
got to do the the hard miles beforehand
you've got to understand where they're
getting their trusted information where
they are in B2B yeah a lot of that's
LinkedIn but then who are they listening
to on LinkedIn like you mentioned at the
start of this episode like what are the
the influences they trust um does
LinkedIn actually make sense in this
situation or should we try and go on
specific podcasts or get involved in
newsletters or get involved in trade
shows and then what you mentioned
educating the market and getting
involved in like you said whether that's
sharing stories or sharing examples or
talking about the product I think where
a lot of folks go wrong on LinkedIn and
I did but in the past is not actually
integrating the product into my posts or
integrating in my case our service or
offer or talking about our company and
because it's all good and well that I've
seen like talk sharing stories and
sharing examples but you do need to make
sure you you link it to your product or
you link it to your offer so that
availability is there whether that's
just weaving in your brand name or
sharing an example like saying like head
to a website to learn more about this
topic or giving a use case of the
product weaving that in so folks can
then kind of connect with you on a
deeper level yes you're grabbing their
attention initially and then you're
you're saying look this is how our
product weaves in so I think that's
something that sometimes gets forgotten
a bit when folks especially on platforms
like LinkedIn are going super hard
trying to get as much as many views or
as many click-throughs or many likes and
comments as they want but really if it
doesn't link back to your
product then it's not going to be as
worthwhile as you probably that's that's
what you and I talked about already
about the the middle of the funnel right
because people are extreme we either
sell sell sell or we educate until we
die yeah and we need to find the middle
ground definitely man well look I know
um I know we're coming up to time and I
appreciate you sharing kind of real
tactical examples I know you and I could
probably talk about this stuff for hours
on end and I'm sure we'll do another
episode in the months to come so with
that n Mana please do tell our listeners
or Watchers more about how they can
learn from you connect with you and the
best way to get touch yeah the best way
is uh is LinkedIn or funy marketing.net
or just look for nayuk or funy marketing
anywhere so uh funky marketing podcast
or YouTube or any other platform just
you know I think Google is the right
Source uh these days or what's
interesting I also got the
request coming in from C GPT the first
one some somebody found funy marketing
on C GPT so you know as about like SEO
does its thing in the background we just
connect the dots as we should the AI
takeover is coming
sir good stuff man really appreciate you
you coming on enjoyed the chat and as
always if you want to join thousands of
B2B Legends getting our lesser known B2B
marketing tips SEO ideas case studies
and podcast updates head over to
breaking bb.com and check out the
newsletter with that thanks for tuning
in we'll catch you on the next one for
more nobs B2B marketing tips grow your
business catch you soon
[Music]